README.md, before:

# Movie Title Generator

## *fn(movielens data, markov chains) => title generator*


## *Why?*


## *Datasets*

The following main data sources were used for this project.

- [MovieLens](http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/)
- [MovieLens - large 20 mill](http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/20m/)
- [MovieLens latest - Largest 26mill](http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/latest/)

### *MovieLens*

The MovieLens movie ratings data is provided by GroupLens Research in datasets ranging in size from 100K to 26 million. There is a "Latest" dataset that includes more recent ratings data up to 2016. I decided to use the latest research set of 26 million ratings, tags, titles, and users.

Permalink (20M): http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/20m/

Permalink (Latest): http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/latest/

### *JavaScript Implementation*




```

# Some rough speed metrics (HP Spectre x360, 2.7 GHz i7-7500U CPU):
$ time node generate.js
real    0m0.485s
user    0m0.000s
sys     0m0.030s

```

### *Results*



## *Next Steps*

This preliminary system can be developed further in a number of ways.

- Use system to generate songs, poetry, recipe's, & screen play's using various datasets.

Commit message:

update README.md & refactor/comment generate.js

README.md, after:

# Movie Title Generator

## *Movielens Data + Markov Chains = Title Generator*


### *Why?*

I'm interested in learning more about Markov Chains & Hidden Markov Models because I would like to explore the following concepts.
 - Automatic Speech Recognition
 - Navigation Prediction & Transitions.

Which use and/or implement Markov Models one way or another

### *Datasets*

The following main data sources were used for this project.

- [MovieLens - 9,000 Titles](http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/)
- [MovieLens Large - 27,000 Titles](http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/20m/)
- [MovieLens Super - 45,000 Titles](http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/latest/)

#### *MovieLens*

The MovieLens ~ [Movie Title's/Genre] data is provided by GroupLens Research as datasets ranging in size from 9,000 to 45,000. I've decided to use the latest dataset of 45,000 movie titles.


```

# Hardware ~ (HP Spectre x360, 2.7 GHz i7-7500U CPU):
$ time node generate.js
real    0m0.485s
user    0m0.000s
sys     0m0.030s

```

<!-- ### *Implementation*

#### *Logic* -->


### *Result*

My results suggest that generate.js was able to effectively model and observe the created state using Markov Chains, which then made it possible for the system to get the probability of each word and it's successor fairly easily. Thus making sentence/title generation from large datasets accurate and efficient.

### *Next Steps*

This preliminary system can be developed further in a number of ways.

- Use system to generate songs, poetry, recipe's, & screen play's using various datasets.
